Readme
Changelog
Example
Installing
Versions
Scores
Chapa Flutter SDK 
The official Chapa Flutter SDK enables Flutter developers to integrate Chapa's Payment API seamlessly into their applications. It supports both native and web checkout, providing a robust and flexible solution for initiating and validating payments.

Features 
🌟 Initiate Payment: Easily facilitate transactions via four supported wallets telebirr,cbebirr,mpesa and ebirr.
✅ Validate Payment Status: Confirm payment completion and notify users instantly.
🌐 Web Checkout Support: Enable users to use the web checkout for additional payment options.
Requirement 
To accept money with Chapa in real time, a Merchant should pass all the KYC process and must be in Live mode.

If you are a developer and testing how Chapa works, you can only test using test numbers: Chapa's Test Numbers

Preview 
Payment Methods in Grid View

Payment Methods in Grid View
Payment Methods in List View with Customized Button Color

Payment Methods in List View
Error

Error
Successful Payment Receipt

Successful Payment Receipt
Getting Started 
Installation 
Add the following dependency to your pubspec.yaml file:

dependencies:
  chapasdk: ^latest_version
Then, run the command:

flutter pub get
Parameters 
Parameter	Type	Required	Description
context	BuildContext	Yes	Context of the current widget.
publicKey	String	Yes	Your Chapa public key (use test key for testing and live key for production).
currency	String	Yes	Transaction currency (ETB for native checkout, ETB or USD for web checkout NB=> You can not use USD for Naive checkout is it is only available for Web checkout.).
amount	String	Yes	The amount to be charged.
email	String	Yes	Customer’s email address.
phone	String	Yes	Customer’s phone number.
firstName	String	Yes	Customer’s first name.
lastName	String	Yes	Customer’s last name.
txRef	String	Yes	Unique reference for the transaction.
title	String	Yes	Title of the payment modal.
desc	String	Yes	Description of the payment.
namedRouteFallBack	String	Yes	Named route to redirect users to after payment events (success, failure, or cancellation). NB: If you are using GoRoute, AutoRoute, or any custom routing package, pass this value as an empty string "" and make sure to pass a body to the onPaymentFinished function.
nativeCheckout	bool	No	Whether to use native checkout (true) or web checkout (false). Default is true.
showPaymentMethodsOnGridView	bool	No	Display payment methods in grid (true) or horizontal view (false). Default is true.
availablePaymentMethods	List<String>	No	List of allowed payment methods (mpesa, cbebirr, telebirr, ebirr). Defaults to all methods.
buttonColor	Color	No	Button color for native checkout. Defaults to the app’s primary theme color.
onPaymentFinished	Function	No	A callback function executed when namedFallBackUrl is empty, typically used for custom navigation (e.g., AutoRoute,GoRoute).
Usage 
import 'package:chapasdk/chapasdk.dart';

Chapa.paymentParameters(
  context: context,
  publicKey: 'CHAPUBK-@@@@',
  currency: 'ETB',
  amount: '1',
  email: 'fetanchapa.co',
  phone: '0911223344',
  firstName: 'Israel',
  lastName: 'Goytom',
  txRef: 'txn_12345',
  title: 'Order Payment',
  desc: 'Payment for order #12345',
  nativeCheckout: true,
  namedRouteFallBack: '/',
  showPaymentMethodsOnGridView: true,
  availablePaymentMethods: ['mpesa', 'cbebirr', 'telebirr', 'ebirr'],
  onPaymentFinished: (message, reference, amount) {
                    Navigator.pop(context);
                  },
);
Payment Responses from 
For Native Checkout: 
Transaction Reference Number in Native Checkout context is Chapa's Reference number for the Payment.

{
  "message": "Any Descriptive message regarding the payment status",
  "transactionReference": "CHHhvtn7xLEkZ", 
  "paidAmount": "1.00"
}
For Web Checkout: 
Transaction Reference Number in Web Checkout context is The transaction reference number you generated for the payment.

Important Note: If the web checkout is initiated from the native checkout page, the Transaction Reference for the web checkout will be generated by the app itself. This is because a single transaction reference cannot be used for both native and web checkout processes. Therefore, the app will generate a separate transaction reference for the web checkout.

Payment Canceled
{
  "message": "paymentCancelled",
  "transactionReference": "txn_12345",
  "paidAmount": "1.00"
}
Payment Successful
{
  "message": "paymentSuccessful",
  "transactionReference": "txn_12345" ,
  "paidAmount": "1.00"
}
Payment Failed
{
  "message": "paymentFailed",
  "transactionReference": "txn_12345",
  "paidAmount": "0.00"
}
FAQ 
1. Is the fallback route mandatory? 
Yes, namedRouteFallBack is required to handle post-payment events such as success, failure, or cancellation.